assets/models/system/yolof_r50_c5_8x8_1x_coco/description.md, before:

`yolof_r50_c5_8x8_1x_coco` model is from <a href="https://github.com/open-mmlab/mmdetection/tree/v2.28.2" target="_blank">OpenMMLab's MMDetection library</a>. This model is reported to obtain <a href="https://github.com/open-mmlab/mmdetection/blob/e9cae2d0787cd5c2fc6165a6061f92fa09e48fb1/configs/yolof/metafile.yml#L31" target="_blank">box AP of 37.5 for object-detection task on COCO dataset</a>. To understand the naming style used, please refer to <a href="https://mmdetection.readthedocs.io/en/v2.28.2/tutorials/config.html#config-name-style" target="_blank">MMDetection's Config Name Style</a>.

This paper revisits feature pyramids networks (FPN) for one-stage detectors and points out that the success of FPN is due to its divide-and-conquer solution to the optimization problem in object detection rather than multi-scale feature fusion. From the perspective of optimization, we introduce an alternative way to address the problem instead of adopting the complex feature pyramids - {\em utilizing only one-level feature for detection}. Based on the simple and efficient solution, we present You Only Look One-level Feature (YOLOF). In our method, two key components, Dilated Encoder and Uniform Matching, are proposed and bring considerable improvements. Extensive experiments on the COCO benchmark prove the effectiveness of the proposed model. Our YOLOF achieves comparable results with its feature pyramids counterpart RetinaNet while being 2.5× faster. Without transformer layers, YOLOF can match the performance of DETR in a single-level feature manner with 7× less training epochs. With an image size of 608×608, YOLOF achieves 44.3 mAP running at 60 fps on 2080Ti, which is 13% faster than YOLOv4.

> The above abstract is from MMDetection website. Review the <a href="https://github.com/open-mmlab/mmdetection/tree/v2.28.2/configs/yolof" target="_blank">original-model-card</a> to understand the data used to train the model, evaluation metrics, license, intended uses, limitations and bias before using the model.

### Inference samples

Inference type|Python sample (Notebook)|CLI with YAML
|--|--|--|
Real time|<a href="https://aka.ms/azureml-infer-sdk-image-object-detection" target="_blank">image-object-detection-online-endpoint.ipynb</a>|<a href="https://aka.ms/azureml-infer-cli-image-object-detection" target="_blank">image-object-detection-online-endpoint.sh</a>
Batch |<a href="https://aka.ms/azureml-infer-batch-sdk-image-object-detection" target="_blank">image-object-detection-batch-endpoint.ipynb</a>|<a href="https://aka.ms/azureml-infer-batch-cli-image-object-detection" target="_blank">image-object-detection-batch-endpoint.sh</a>

### Finetuning samples

Task|Use case|Dataset|Python sample (Notebook)|CLI with YAML
|---|--|--|--|--|
Image object detection|Image object detection|[fridgeObjects](https://cvbp-secondary.z19.web.core.windows.net/datasets/object_detection/odFridgeObjects.zip)|<a href="https://aka.ms/azureml-ft-sdk-image-object-detection" target="_blank">fridgeobjects-object-detection.ipynb</a>|<a href="https://aka.ms/azureml-ft-cli-image-object-detection" target="_blank">fridgeobjects-object-detection.sh</a>

### Model Evaluation

|Task|Use case|Dataset|Python sample (Notebook)|
|---|--|--|--|
Image object detection|Image object detection|[fridgeObjects](https://cvbp-secondary.z19.web.core.windows.net/datasets/object_detection/odFridgeObjects.zip)|<a href="https://aka.ms/azureml-evaluation-sdk-image-object-detection" target="_blank">image-object-detection.ipynb</a>|

### Sample inputs and outputs (for real-time inference)

#### Sample input

```json
{
  "input_data": {
    "columns": [
      "image"
    ],
    "index": [0, 1],
    "data": ["image1", "image2"]
  }
}
```

Note: "image1" and "image2" string should be in base64 format or publicly accessible urls.

#### Sample output

```json
[
    {
        "boxes": [
            {
                "box": {
                    "topX": 0.1,
                    "topY": 0.2,
                    "bottomX": 0.8,
                    "bottomY": 0.7
                },
                "label": "carton",
                "score": 0.98
            }
        ]
    },
    {
        "boxes": [
            {
                "box": {
                    "topX": 0.2,
                    "topY": 0.3,
                    "bottomX": 0.6,
                    "bottomY": 0.5
                },
                "label": "can",
                "score": 0.97
            }
        ]
    }
]
```

Note: Please refer to object detection output <a href="https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/machine-learning/reference-automl-images-schema?view=azureml-api-2#object-detection-1" target="_blank">data schema</a> for more detail.

#### Model inference - visualization for a sample image

<img src="https://automlcesdkdataresources.blob.core.windows.net/finetuning-image-models/images/Model_Result_Visualizations(Do_not_delete)/plot_yolof_r50_c5_8x8_1x_coco_OD.png" alt="od visualization">

Commit message:

MMD 2.x model deprecation warning (#1764)
* MMD 2.x model deprecation warning

* Added mmd-3x model link

* Update model deprecation warning

* remove extra newline

* remove extra new line

---------

Co-authored-by: Rupal Jain <rupaljain@microsoft.com>

assets/models/system/yolof_r50_c5_8x8_1x_coco/description.md, after:

`yolof_r50_c5_8x8_1x_coco` model is from <a href="https://github.com/open-mmlab/mmdetection/tree/v2.28.2" target="_blank">OpenMMLab's MMDetection library</a>. This model is reported to obtain <a href="https://github.com/open-mmlab/mmdetection/blob/e9cae2d0787cd5c2fc6165a6061f92fa09e48fb1/configs/yolof/metafile.yml#L31" target="_blank">box AP of 37.5 for object-detection task on COCO dataset</a>. To understand the naming style used, please refer to <a href="https://mmdetection.readthedocs.io/en/v2.28.2/tutorials/config.html#config-name-style" target="_blank">MMDetection's Config Name Style</a>.

This paper revisits feature pyramids networks (FPN) for one-stage detectors and points out that the success of FPN is due to its divide-and-conquer solution to the optimization problem in object detection rather than multi-scale feature fusion. From the perspective of optimization, we introduce an alternative way to address the problem instead of adopting the complex feature pyramids - {\em utilizing only one-level feature for detection}. Based on the simple and efficient solution, we present You Only Look One-level Feature (YOLOF). In our method, two key components, Dilated Encoder and Uniform Matching, are proposed and bring considerable improvements. Extensive experiments on the COCO benchmark prove the effectiveness of the proposed model. Our YOLOF achieves comparable results with its feature pyramids counterpart RetinaNet while being 2.5× faster. Without transformer layers, YOLOF can match the performance of DETR in a single-level feature manner with 7× less training epochs. With an image size of 608×608, YOLOF achieves 44.3 mAP running at 60 fps on 2080Ti, which is 13% faster than YOLOv4.

> The above abstract is from MMDetection website. Review the <a href="https://github.com/open-mmlab/mmdetection/tree/v2.28.2/configs/yolof" target="_blank">original-model-card</a> to understand the data used to train the model, evaluation metrics, license, intended uses, limitations and bias before using the model.

> <b>Deprecation Warning</b>: This model is only compatible with mmdet <= 2.28 and is deprecated. We recommend using `mmd-3x-yolof_r50_c5_8x8_1x_coco`, the corresponding mmdet >= 3.1.0 model instead, from <a href="https://ml.azure.com/model/catalog" target="_blank">the AzureML model catalog</a>. In our model catalog, the models prefixed with mmdet-3x are compatible with mmdet >= 3.1.0.

### Inference samples

Inference type|Python sample (Notebook)|CLI with YAML
|--|--|--|
Real time|<a href="https://aka.ms/azureml-infer-sdk-image-object-detection" target="_blank">image-object-detection-online-endpoint.ipynb</a>|<a href="https://aka.ms/azureml-infer-cli-image-object-detection" target="_blank">image-object-detection-online-endpoint.sh</a>
Batch |<a href="https://aka.ms/azureml-infer-batch-sdk-image-object-detection" target="_blank">image-object-detection-batch-endpoint.ipynb</a>|<a href="https://aka.ms/azureml-infer-batch-cli-image-object-detection" target="_blank">image-object-detection-batch-endpoint.sh</a>

### Finetuning samples

Task|Use case|Dataset|Python sample (Notebook)|CLI with YAML
|---|--|--|--|--|
Image object detection|Image object detection|[fridgeObjects](https://cvbp-secondary.z19.web.core.windows.net/datasets/object_detection/odFridgeObjects.zip)|<a href="https://aka.ms/azureml-ft-sdk-image-object-detection" target="_blank">fridgeobjects-object-detection.ipynb</a>|<a href="https://aka.ms/azureml-ft-cli-image-object-detection" target="_blank">fridgeobjects-object-detection.sh</a>

### Model Evaluation

|Task|Use case|Dataset|Python sample (Notebook)|
|---|--|--|--|
Image object detection|Image object detection|[fridgeObjects](https://cvbp-secondary.z19.web.core.windows.net/datasets/object_detection/odFridgeObjects.zip)|<a href="https://aka.ms/azureml-evaluation-sdk-image-object-detection" target="_blank">image-object-detection.ipynb</a>|

### Sample inputs and outputs (for real-time inference)

#### Sample input

```json
{
  "input_data": {
    "columns": [
      "image"
    ],
    "index": [0, 1],
    "data": ["image1", "image2"]
  }
}
```

Note: "image1" and "image2" string should be in base64 format or publicly accessible urls.

#### Sample output

```json
[
    {
        "boxes": [
            {
                "box": {
                    "topX": 0.1,
                    "topY": 0.2,
                    "bottomX": 0.8,
                    "bottomY": 0.7
                },
                "label": "carton",
                "score": 0.98
            }
        ]
    },
    {
        "boxes": [
            {
                "box": {
                    "topX": 0.2,
                    "topY": 0.3,
                    "bottomX": 0.6,
                    "bottomY": 0.5
                },
                "label": "can",
                "score": 0.97
            }
        ]
    }
]
```

Note: Please refer to object detection output <a href="https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/machine-learning/reference-automl-images-schema?view=azureml-api-2#object-detection-1" target="_blank">data schema</a> for more detail.

#### Model inference - visualization for a sample image

<img src="https://automlcesdkdataresources.blob.core.windows.net/finetuning-image-models/images/Model_Result_Visualizations(Do_not_delete)/plot_yolof_r50_c5_8x8_1x_coco_OD.png" alt="od visualization">
