The dolly-v2-12b model is a large, instruction-following language model created by Databricks, Inc. and is licensed for commercial use. It is based on EleutherAI’s Pythia-12b and was trained on a 15,000-record instruction corpus generated by Databricks employees, which was released under a CC-BY-SA license. It is not a state-of-the-art model, but it does exhibit high-quality instruction-following behavior that is not characteristic of the foundation model on which it is based.

dolly-v2-12b is a 12 billion parameter causal language model created by Databricks that is derived from EleutherAI’s Pythia-12b and fine-tuned on a ~15K record instruction corpus generated by Databricks employees and released under a permissive license (CC-BY-SA)

Dolly v2 is also available in these smaller models sizes:

dolly-v2-7b, a 6.9 billion parameter based on pythia-6.9b
dolly-v2-3b, a 2.8 billion parameter based on pythia-2.8b

> The above summary was generated using ChatGPT. Review the <a href="https://huggingface.co/databricks/dolly-v2-12b" target="_blank">original model card</a> to understand the data used to train the model, evaluation metrics, license, intended uses, limitations and bias before using the model.

### Inference samples

Inference type|Python sample (Notebook)|CLI with YAML
|--|--|--|
Real time|<a href="https://aka.ms/azureml-infer-online-sdk-text-generation-dolly" target="_blank">text-generation-online-endpoint-dolly.ipynb</a>|<a href="https://aka.ms/azureml-infer-online-cli-text-generation-dolly" target="_blank">text-generation-online-endpoint-dolly.sh</a>
Batch |<a href="https://aka.ms/azureml-infer-batch-sdk-text-generation" target="_blank">text-generation-batch-endpoint.ipynb</a>| coming soon


### Model Evaluation

Task| Use case| Dataset| Python sample (Notebook)| CLI with YAML
|--|--|--|--|--|
Text generation | Text generation | <a href="https://huggingface.co/datasets/cnn_dailymail" target="_blank"> cnn_dailymail </a> | <a href="https://aka.ms/azureml-eval-sdk-text-generation/" target="_blank">evaluate-model-text-generation.ipynb</a> | <a href="https://aka.ms/azureml-eval-cli-text-generation/" target="_blank">evaluate-model-text-generation.yml</a>

### Performance Limitations
Dolly-v2-12b doesn't meet the standards of a cutting-edge generative language model. While ongoing quantitative assessments are being conducted, its design doesn't position it to compete effectively with more modern model architectures or those based on larger pretraining datasets.

The Dolly model family is actively undergoing development, making it challenging to compile an exhaustive list of limitations. However, we outline known issues and setbacks here to share our initial insights with the community. Specifically, dolly-v2-12b encounters difficulties in handling: intricate sentence structures, programming-related tasks, mathematical calculations, factual accuracy, managing dates and times, answering open-ended questions, avoiding fabrication, generating lists of specific lengths, mimicking particular writing styles, incorporating humor, and more. Additionally, it's noted that dolly-v2-12b lacks certain capabilities present in the original model, such as well-structured letter composition.

### Model Performance

SKU Name| Avg. Requests Per Second | Avg. Latency(s) 
|--|--|--|
Standard_E16s_v3 | 0.03 | 50.34
Standard_F32s_v2 | 0.03 | 59.1
Standard_NC24s_v3 | 1.08 | 34.9


### Sample inputs and outputs (for real-time inference)

```json
{
    "input_data": {
        "input_string": ["Explain to me the difference between nuclear fission and fusion."]
    }
}
```

#### Sample output
```json
[
  {
    "0": "Nuclear fission and fusion are the 2 main ways that the nucleus of an atom can change. Nuclear fission occurs when a nucleus splits into 2 or more pieces. Nuclear fusion occurs when 2 or more nuclei join together to make a much larger nucleus.\n\nBoth nuclear fission and nuclear fusion take a lot of energy. For fission, you need to melt the nucleus to allow for the pieces to separate. For fusion, you need to sustain temperatures over 10 million degrees Celsius in order to combine 2 nuclei together.\n\nNuclear fission is how nuclear power plants create electricity. Nuclear fission involves using high-energy radiation to split a nucleus in 2 pieces. The pieces become unstable and quickly decay to release energy.\n\nNuclear fusion involves combining 2 or more nuclei of different elements into one new one. For this to happen, the nuclei need to be brought close together but kept apart by the enormous energies needed for nuclear fusion. In this process, a small amount of energy is released that can be converted to electricity. Nuclear fusion is how stars create the light and heat we feel from the sun.\n\nHuman beings can control which process happens in a nuclear reactor. We use catalysts to cause nuclear fission or nuclear fusion to happen.\n\nFusion happens naturally in the"
  }
]
```
